This directory contains examples files for testing different parts of Athena.

README           this file
cu10k.dat	 copper foil at 10K
cu50k.dat	 copper foil at 50K
cu150k.dat	 copper foil at 150K
chi_cu.dat	 Feff's chi.dat file for copper foil
chi_teo.dat	 Feff's chi.dat file for EuTiO3
danger.prj	 demonstration of a potential security vulnerability in Athena
tieu300.dat	 Ti edge EuTiO3 at 300K, scan 1
tieu301.dat	 Ti edge EuTiO3 at 300K, scan 2
tieu302.dat	 Ti edge EuTiO3 at 300K, scan 3 
Uroc_101f.xmu	 U L3/L2 edge data for which normalization is extremely difficult
uhup.003	 glitchy U L3 edge data, glitch in post-edge
Udsvuo2.029      glitchy U L3 edge data, glitch in pre-edge
backwards.xmu    data which was collected backwards in energy
mngaas.351       data taken with a multielement detector (8 fluor. columns)
nio_001.xmu      an example of non-monotonically increasing data
nonuniform.chi   an example of chi(k) data that is not on a uniform k-grid
InAsP_16	 dispersive exafs data, mu as a function of pixel position
InAsP_ave.dat	 the same sample as InAsP_16, normal mu(E) data
56_columns.dat   a multi-column file
x10c.xfs         example data file from NSLS X10C, test filetype plugin
s_x15b.dat       example data file from NSLS X15B, test filetype plugin

In the demos directory:

align_merge.prj  project file demonstrating how to align and merge data
calibrate.prj    project file demonstrating how to calibrate data
clamp.prj        project file demonstrating spline clamps
clnorm.prj       project file demonstrating CL normalization of XANES data
deglitch.prj     project file demonstrating the deglitching algorithms
diff.prj	 project file demonstrating difference spectra
dispersive.prj	 project file demonstrating calibration of dispersive data
peakfit.prj      project file demonstrating the near edge peak fitting
rbkg.prj         project file demonstrating the effect of the Rbkg parameter
reports.prj      project file explaining report generation
selfabs.prj	 project file demonstrating self-absorption corrections
smoothing.prj    project file demonstrating the smoothing algorithms
stacked_plot.prj project file demonstrating how to make stacked plots
truncate.prj     project file demonstrating data truncation



Some things to try:

 1. Use `uhup.003' and `Udsvuo2.029' to test deglitching functionality
 2. Use the EuTiO3 data to test merging functionality
 3. `tieu302.dat' is misaligned from the other two by about 1.3 eV, so
    is good for testing alignment functionality
 4. The copper or the EuTiO3 data sets are good for testing the marked
    plot features
 5. After aligning, merging, and playing around with other parameters,
    try saving your entire project, deleting the project, and reading
    the project file back in.
 6. Try reading in `cu10k.dat' and then make a copy of it.  Weight the
    original by kw=1 and the copy by kw=2.  Set the Plot multiplier
    parameter for the kw=1 group to 4.  Choose the "chi*k^kw" plotting
    option, mark both groups and push the "plot marked in k" button.
 7. The backwards.xmu file is just that -- a wacky xmu file measured
    in reverse.  Athena checks for and corrects this wackiness.
 8. The other odd-ball file is `nio_001.xmu'.  It contains data that
    is non-monotonic in energy.  This is here to test Athena's data
    sorting algorithm.
 9. The project files contain entensive notes in their journals.
10. The file `mngaas.351' contains data from a muti-element detector.
    You can test the feature of the column selection dialog that
    allows you to add columns of data as the file is read in.
11. Some other data processing programs write chi(k) data onto a
    k-grid that is not the ifeffit standard of zero-padded at the
    beginning and uniform in k with a grid of 0.05.  Athena corrects
    such data on the fly.  Try nonuniform.chi to see this in action.
